README.md, before:

# helm-ttl

A Helm plugin that manages TTL (time-to-live) for Helm releases. When a TTL is set, the plugin creates a Kubernetes CronJob that automatically uninstalls the release at the scheduled time and cleans up after itself. This prevents abandoned releases from consuming cluster resources.

## Installation

```bash
helm plugin install https://github.com/josegonzalez/helm-ttl
```

## Building from Source

```bash
# Build
make build

# Run tests
make test

# Run tests with coverage check (95% minimum)
make cover

# Lint
make lint

# Install into Helm plugins directory
make install
```

## Usage

```text
helm ttl COMMAND [ARGS...] [FLAGS...]
```

| Command | Description |
| ------- | ----------- |
| `set`   | Set a TTL on a Helm release |
| `get`   | Get the current TTL for a release |
| `unset` | Remove TTL from a release |
| `run`   | Immediately execute the TTL action |
| `cleanup-rbac` | Delete orphaned RBAC resources |

### Global Flags

These flags are available on all subcommands:

| Flag | Default | Description |
| ---- | ------- | ----------- |
| `-n, --namespace` | `HELM_NAMESPACE` or `default` | Override the release namespace |
| `--kube-context` | `HELM_KUBECONTEXT` | Override the Kubernetes context |
| `--kubeconfig` | `KUBECONFIG` | Path to kubeconfig file |
| `--driver` | `HELM_DRIVER` or `secrets` | Helm storage driver |

Flag values take priority over environment variables.

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Flag Override | Description |
| -------- | ------------ | ----------- |
| `HELM_NAMESPACE` | `-n, --namespace` | Release namespace (set by Helm) |
| `HELM_KUBECONTEXT` | `--kube-context` | Kubernetes context to use |
| `HELM_DRIVER` | `--driver` | Helm storage driver (default: `secrets`) |
| `KUBECONFIG` | `--kubeconfig` | Path to kubeconfig file |

## Commands

### `helm ttl set RELEASE DURATION [flags]`

Set a TTL for a Helm release. Creates a CronJob that will uninstall the release when the TTL expires.

**Flags:**

| Flag | Default | Description |
| ---- | ------- | ----------- |
| `--service-account` | `default` | Service account for the CronJob |
| `--create-service-account` | `false` | Create the service account (in the CronJob namespace) and RBAC resources |
| `--helm-image` | vendored | Helm container image |
| `--kubectl-image` | vendored | kubectl container image |
| `--cronjob-namespace` | release namespace | Namespace for the CronJob |
| `--delete-namespace` | `false` | Also delete the release namespace after uninstalling |

**Examples:**

```bash
# Set a TTL on a release (auto-creates service account and RBAC)
helm ttl set my-release 24h --create-service-account

# Set TTL using days shorthand
helm ttl set my-release 7d --create-service-account

# Set TTL using natural language
helm ttl set my-release "next monday" --create-service-account

# Set TTL with custom service account
helm ttl set my-release 2h --service-account my-sa

# Set TTL targeting a specific release namespace
helm ttl set my-release 24h --create-service-account -n staging

# Set TTL in a different namespace for the CronJob
helm ttl set my-release 7d --create-service-account --cronjob-namespace ops

# Set TTL and delete the release namespace on expiry
helm ttl set my-release 30d --create-service-account --cronjob-namespace ops --delete-namespace
```

### `helm ttl get RELEASE [flags]`

Get the current TTL for a release.

**Flags:**

| Flag | Default | Description |
| ---- | ------- | ----------- |
| `-o, --output` | `text` | Output format: text, yaml, json |
| `--cronjob-namespace` | release namespace | Namespace where the CronJob lives |

**Examples:**

```bash
# Get the current TTL for a release
helm ttl get my-release

# Get TTL for a release in a specific namespace
helm ttl get my-release -n staging

# Get TTL in JSON format
helm ttl get my-release -o json

# Get TTL in YAML format
helm ttl get my-release -o yaml

# Get TTL when the CronJob is in a different namespace than the release
helm ttl get my-release -n staging --cronjob-namespace ops
```

### `helm ttl unset RELEASE [flags]`

Remove TTL from a release by deleting the CronJob and cleaning up RBAC resources.

**Flags:**

| Flag | Default | Description |
| ---- | ------- | ----------- |
| `--cronjob-namespace` | release namespace | Namespace where the CronJob lives |

**Examples:**

```bash
# Remove TTL from a release
helm ttl unset my-release

# Remove TTL when the CronJob is in a different namespace than the release
helm ttl unset my-release -n staging --cronjob-namespace ops
```

### `helm ttl run RELEASE [flags]`

Immediately execute the TTL action for a release. This performs the same operations that the CronJob would: uninstall the release, optionally delete the namespace, delete the CronJob, and clean up RBAC resources.

A TTL must already be set for the release (via `helm ttl set`).

**Flags:**

| Flag | Default | Description |
| ---- | ------- | ----------- |
| `--cronjob-namespace` | release namespace | Namespace where the CronJob lives |

**Examples:**

```bash
# Immediately execute TTL for a release
helm ttl run my-release

# Execute TTL for a release with CronJob in a different namespace
helm ttl run my-release --cronjob-namespace ops

# Immediately execute TTL with cross-namespace setup
helm ttl run my-release -n staging --cronjob-namespace ops
```

### `helm ttl cleanup-rbac [flags]`

Delete orphaned ServiceAccount and RBAC resources whose CronJobs have already fired or been deleted.

**Flags:**

| Flag | Default | Description |
| ---- | ------- | ----------- |
| `--dry-run` | `false` | Print what would be deleted without deleting |
| `-A, --all-namespaces` | `false` | Search all namespaces for orphaned resources |

**Examples:**

```bash
# Clean up orphaned RBAC resources (dry run)
helm ttl cleanup-rbac --dry-run

# Clean up orphaned RBAC resources across all namespaces
helm ttl cleanup-rbac --all-namespaces
```

## Duration Formats

Durations are tried in this order:

1. **Go durations:** `30m`, `2h`, `2h30m`, `24h`, `168h`
2. **Days shorthand:** `7d`, `30d`
3. **Human-readable durations:** `6 hours`, `3 days`, `2 weeks`, `30 mins`
4. **Natural language:** `tomorrow`, `next monday`, `in 2 hours`

## RBAC

### Plugin Permissions

The `helm ttl` CLI itself needs Kubernetes API access to
manage CronJobs and RBAC resources. The permissions required
depend on which commands and flags you use.

**Minimal (read-only `get`, or `set` without
`--create-service-account`):**

```yaml
rules:
  - apiGroups: ["batch"]
    resources: ["cronjobs"]
    verbs: ["get", "create", "update", "delete"]
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["serviceaccounts"]
    verbs: ["get"]
```

**Recommended (all commands with
`--create-service-account`):**

```yaml
rules:
  - apiGroups: ["batch"]
    resources: ["cronjobs"]
    verbs: ["get", "create", "update", "delete"]
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["serviceaccounts"]
    verbs: ["get", "list", "create", "update", "delete"]
  - apiGroups: ["rbac.authorization.k8s.io"]
    resources: ["roles", "rolebindings"]
    verbs: ["get", "list", "create", "update", "delete"]
```

**Full (adds `--delete-namespace` and
`cleanup-rbac --all-namespaces`):**

```yaml
# Role (namespaced permissions from above, plus)
rules:
  - apiGroups: ["batch"]
    resources: ["cronjobs"]
    verbs: ["get", "create", "update", "delete"]
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["serviceaccounts"]
    verbs: ["get", "list", "create", "update", "delete"]
  - apiGroups: ["rbac.authorization.k8s.io"]
    resources: ["roles", "rolebindings"]
    verbs: ["get", "list", "create", "update", "delete"]

# ClusterRole (cluster-scoped permissions)
rules:
  - apiGroups: ["rbac.authorization.k8s.io"]
    resources: ["clusterroles", "clusterrolebindings"]
    verbs: ["get", "list", "create", "update", "delete"]
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["namespaces"]
    verbs: ["list", "delete"]
```

> These are permissions for the user or service account
> running the `helm ttl` CLI, not the CronJob pods it
> creates. See below for CronJob pod permissions.

### CronJob Pod Permissions

#### Automatic RBAC Creation

Use `--create-service-account` to automatically create the minimum required RBAC resources. The plugin handles three scenarios:

**Same namespace** (CronJob and release in the same namespace):

- ServiceAccount, Role (secrets + cronjobs access), RoleBinding

**Cross-namespace** (CronJob in a different namespace):

- ServiceAccount in CronJob namespace
- Role + RoleBinding in release namespace (secrets access)
- Role + RoleBinding in CronJob namespace (cronjobs access for self-cleanup)

**Cross-namespace with `--delete-namespace`:**

- Everything from cross-namespace, plus:
- ClusterRole + ClusterRoleBinding (namespaces access)

> The ServiceAccount is always created in the CronJob namespace, since that is where the CronJob pod runs.

#### RBAC Cleanup

RBAC resources are **not** automatically deleted when the CronJob fires. They remain as inert orphans. To clean them up:

- **Before TTL fires:** `helm ttl unset RELEASE` (cleans up everything)
- **After TTL fires:** `helm ttl cleanup-rbac` (finds and deletes orphaned RBAC)

#### Manual RBAC Setup

If you prefer to manage RBAC yourself, create a ServiceAccount with the following permissions and pass it via `--service-account`:

```yaml
# Minimum required for same-namespace TTL
rules:
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["secrets"]
    verbs: ["get", "list", "delete"]
  - apiGroups: ["batch"]
    resources: ["cronjobs"]
    verbs: ["get", "delete"]
```

## Tutorial

### Setting a TTL on a release

After deploying a Helm release, set a TTL to have it automatically cleaned up:

```bash
helm ttl set my-release 7d --create-service-account
```

This creates a CronJob that will uninstall `my-release` in 7 days. The `--create-service-account` flag sets up the ServiceAccount and RBAC resources the CronJob needs.

### Checking a TTL

Verify the TTL is set and see when it will fire:

```bash
helm ttl get my-release
```

### Updating a TTL

Run `set` again to update the expiration time:

```bash
helm ttl set my-release 14d --create-service-account
```

### Removing a TTL

If you decide to keep a release, remove the TTL. This deletes the CronJob and cleans up RBAC resources:

```bash
helm ttl unset my-release
```

### Cross-namespace setup

When the CronJob should run in a different namespace than the release (e.g., a shared `ops` namespace):

```bash
helm ttl set my-release 7d --create-service-account \
  -n staging --cronjob-namespace ops
```

To also delete the release namespace when the TTL fires:

```bash
helm ttl set my-release 30d --create-service-account \
  -n staging --cronjob-namespace ops \
  --delete-namespace
```

### Cleaning up after TTL fires

After a CronJob fires, the RBAC resources it used remain as inert orphans. Clean them up with:

```bash
# Preview what would be deleted
helm ttl cleanup-rbac --dry-run

# Delete orphaned RBAC resources
helm ttl cleanup-rbac
```

## Limitations

- **Maximum TTL:** ~11 months (cron has no year field)
- **RBAC cleanup:** CronJobs do not clean up their own RBAC resources after firing
- **`--delete-namespace`** is only allowed when the CronJob namespace differs from the release namespace
- **Resource name length:** Combined `<release>-<namespace>-ttl` must be <= 52 characters

## License

MIT

Commit message:

feat: make `helm ttl run` execute via Kubernetes Job with log capture

README.md, after:

# helm-ttl

A Helm plugin that manages TTL (time-to-live) for Helm releases. When a TTL is set, the plugin creates a Kubernetes CronJob that automatically uninstalls the release at the scheduled time and cleans up after itself. This prevents abandoned releases from consuming cluster resources.

## Installation

```bash
helm plugin install https://github.com/josegonzalez/helm-ttl
```

## Building from Source

```bash
# Build
make build

# Run tests
make test

# Run tests with coverage check (95% minimum)
make cover

# Lint
make lint

# Install into Helm plugins directory
make install
```

## Usage

```text
helm ttl COMMAND [ARGS...] [FLAGS...]
```

| Command | Description |
| ------- | ----------- |
| `set`   | Set a TTL on a Helm release |
| `get`   | Get the current TTL for a release |
| `unset` | Remove TTL from a release |
| `run`   | Immediately execute the TTL action |
| `cleanup-rbac` | Delete orphaned RBAC resources |

### Global Flags

These flags are available on all subcommands:

| Flag | Default | Description |
| ---- | ------- | ----------- |
| `-n, --namespace` | `HELM_NAMESPACE` or `default` | Override the release namespace |
| `--kube-context` | `HELM_KUBECONTEXT` | Override the Kubernetes context |
| `--kubeconfig` | `KUBECONFIG` | Path to kubeconfig file |
| `--driver` | `HELM_DRIVER` or `secrets` | Helm storage driver |

Flag values take priority over environment variables.

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Flag Override | Description |
| -------- | ------------ | ----------- |
| `HELM_NAMESPACE` | `-n, --namespace` | Release namespace (set by Helm) |
| `HELM_KUBECONTEXT` | `--kube-context` | Kubernetes context to use |
| `HELM_DRIVER` | `--driver` | Helm storage driver (default: `secrets`) |
| `KUBECONFIG` | `--kubeconfig` | Path to kubeconfig file |

## Commands

### `helm ttl set RELEASE DURATION [flags]`

Set a TTL for a Helm release. Creates a CronJob that will uninstall the release when the TTL expires.

**Flags:**

| Flag | Default | Description |
| ---- | ------- | ----------- |
| `--service-account` | `default` | Service account for the CronJob |
| `--create-service-account` | `false` | Create the service account (in the CronJob namespace) and RBAC resources |
| `--helm-image` | vendored | Helm container image |
| `--kubectl-image` | vendored | kubectl container image |
| `--cronjob-namespace` | release namespace | Namespace for the CronJob |
| `--delete-namespace` | `false` | Also delete the release namespace after uninstalling |

**Examples:**

```bash
# Set a TTL on a release (auto-creates service account and RBAC)
helm ttl set my-release 24h --create-service-account

# Set TTL using days shorthand
helm ttl set my-release 7d --create-service-account

# Set TTL using natural language
helm ttl set my-release "next monday" --create-service-account

# Set TTL with custom service account
helm ttl set my-release 2h --service-account my-sa

# Set TTL targeting a specific release namespace
helm ttl set my-release 24h --create-service-account -n staging

# Set TTL in a different namespace for the CronJob
helm ttl set my-release 7d --create-service-account --cronjob-namespace ops

# Set TTL and delete the release namespace on expiry
helm ttl set my-release 30d --create-service-account --cronjob-namespace ops --delete-namespace
```

### `helm ttl get RELEASE [flags]`

Get the current TTL for a release.

**Flags:**

| Flag | Default | Description |
| ---- | ------- | ----------- |
| `-o, --output` | `text` | Output format: text, yaml, json |
| `--cronjob-namespace` | release namespace | Namespace where the CronJob lives |

**Examples:**

```bash
# Get the current TTL for a release
helm ttl get my-release

# Get TTL for a release in a specific namespace
helm ttl get my-release -n staging

# Get TTL in JSON format
helm ttl get my-release -o json

# Get TTL in YAML format
helm ttl get my-release -o yaml

# Get TTL when the CronJob is in a different namespace than the release
helm ttl get my-release -n staging --cronjob-namespace ops
```

### `helm ttl unset RELEASE [flags]`

Remove TTL from a release by deleting the CronJob and cleaning up RBAC resources.

**Flags:**

| Flag | Default | Description |
| ---- | ------- | ----------- |
| `--cronjob-namespace` | release namespace | Namespace where the CronJob lives |

**Examples:**

```bash
# Remove TTL from a release
helm ttl unset my-release

# Remove TTL when the CronJob is in a different namespace than the release
helm ttl unset my-release -n staging --cronjob-namespace ops
```

### `helm ttl run RELEASE [flags]`

Immediately execute the TTL action for a release. Creates a Kubernetes Job from the CronJob's template, streams container logs, and checks exit codes. This validates that the CronJob will work when it fires, and gives visibility into the execution. After execution, the CronJob and RBAC resources are cleaned up.

A TTL must already be set for the release (via `helm ttl set`).

**Flags:**

| Flag | Default | Description |
| ---- | ------- | ----------- |
| `--cronjob-namespace` | release namespace | Namespace where the CronJob lives |
| `--timeout` | `5m` | Timeout for job execution |

**Examples:**

```bash
# Immediately execute TTL for a release
helm ttl run my-release

# Execute TTL for a release with CronJob in a different namespace
helm ttl run my-release --cronjob-namespace ops

# Immediately execute TTL with cross-namespace setup
helm ttl run my-release -n staging --cronjob-namespace ops
```

### `helm ttl cleanup-rbac [flags]`

Delete orphaned ServiceAccount and RBAC resources whose CronJobs have already fired or been deleted.

**Flags:**

| Flag | Default | Description |
| ---- | ------- | ----------- |
| `--dry-run` | `false` | Print what would be deleted without deleting |
| `-A, --all-namespaces` | `false` | Search all namespaces for orphaned resources |

**Examples:**

```bash
# Clean up orphaned RBAC resources (dry run)
helm ttl cleanup-rbac --dry-run

# Clean up orphaned RBAC resources across all namespaces
helm ttl cleanup-rbac --all-namespaces
```

## Duration Formats

Durations are tried in this order:

1. **Go durations:** `30m`, `2h`, `2h30m`, `24h`, `168h`
2. **Days shorthand:** `7d`, `30d`
3. **Human-readable durations:** `6 hours`, `3 days`, `2 weeks`, `30 mins`
4. **Natural language:** `tomorrow`, `next monday`, `in 2 hours`

## RBAC

### Plugin Permissions

The `helm ttl` CLI itself needs Kubernetes API access to
manage CronJobs and RBAC resources. The permissions required
depend on which commands and flags you use.

**Minimal (read-only `get`, or `set` without
`--create-service-account`):**

```yaml
rules:
  - apiGroups: ["batch"]
    resources: ["cronjobs"]
    verbs: ["get", "create", "update", "delete"]
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["serviceaccounts"]
    verbs: ["get"]
```

**Recommended (all commands with
`--create-service-account`):**

```yaml
rules:
  - apiGroups: ["batch"]
    resources: ["cronjobs"]
    verbs: ["get", "create", "update", "delete"]
  - apiGroups: ["batch"]
    resources: ["jobs"]
    verbs: ["create", "get", "delete"]
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["serviceaccounts"]
    verbs: ["get", "list", "create", "update", "delete"]
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods"]
    verbs: ["list", "get"]
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods/log"]
    verbs: ["get"]
  - apiGroups: ["rbac.authorization.k8s.io"]
    resources: ["roles", "rolebindings"]
    verbs: ["get", "list", "create", "update", "delete"]
```

**Full (adds `--delete-namespace` and
`cleanup-rbac --all-namespaces`):**

```yaml
# Role (namespaced permissions from above, plus)
rules:
  - apiGroups: ["batch"]
    resources: ["cronjobs"]
    verbs: ["get", "create", "update", "delete"]
  - apiGroups: ["batch"]
    resources: ["jobs"]
    verbs: ["create", "get", "delete"]
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["serviceaccounts"]
    verbs: ["get", "list", "create", "update", "delete"]
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods"]
    verbs: ["list", "get"]
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods/log"]
    verbs: ["get"]
  - apiGroups: ["rbac.authorization.k8s.io"]
    resources: ["roles", "rolebindings"]
    verbs: ["get", "list", "create", "update", "delete"]

# ClusterRole (cluster-scoped permissions)
rules:
  - apiGroups: ["rbac.authorization.k8s.io"]
    resources: ["clusterroles", "clusterrolebindings"]
    verbs: ["get", "list", "create", "update", "delete"]
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["namespaces"]
    verbs: ["list", "delete"]
```

> These are permissions for the user or service account
> running the `helm ttl` CLI, not the CronJob pods it
> creates. See below for CronJob pod permissions.

### CronJob Pod Permissions

#### Automatic RBAC Creation

Use `--create-service-account` to automatically create the minimum required RBAC resources. The plugin handles three scenarios:

**Same namespace** (CronJob and release in the same namespace):

- ServiceAccount, Role (secrets + cronjobs access), RoleBinding

**Cross-namespace** (CronJob in a different namespace):

- ServiceAccount in CronJob namespace
- Role + RoleBinding in release namespace (secrets access)
- Role + RoleBinding in CronJob namespace (cronjobs access for self-cleanup)

**Cross-namespace with `--delete-namespace`:**

- Everything from cross-namespace, plus:
- ClusterRole + ClusterRoleBinding (namespaces access)

> The ServiceAccount is always created in the CronJob namespace, since that is where the CronJob pod runs.

#### RBAC Cleanup

RBAC resources are **not** automatically deleted when the CronJob fires. They remain as inert orphans. To clean them up:

- **Before TTL fires:** `helm ttl unset RELEASE` (cleans up everything)
- **After TTL fires:** `helm ttl cleanup-rbac` (finds and deletes orphaned RBAC)

#### Manual RBAC Setup

If you prefer to manage RBAC yourself, create a ServiceAccount with the following permissions and pass it via `--service-account`:

```yaml
# Minimum required for same-namespace TTL
rules:
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["secrets"]
    verbs: ["get", "list", "delete"]
  - apiGroups: ["batch"]
    resources: ["cronjobs"]
    verbs: ["get", "delete"]
```

## Tutorial

### Setting a TTL on a release

After deploying a Helm release, set a TTL to have it automatically cleaned up:

```bash
helm ttl set my-release 7d --create-service-account
```

This creates a CronJob that will uninstall `my-release` in 7 days. The `--create-service-account` flag sets up the ServiceAccount and RBAC resources the CronJob needs.

### Checking a TTL

Verify the TTL is set and see when it will fire:

```bash
helm ttl get my-release
```

### Updating a TTL

Run `set` again to update the expiration time:

```bash
helm ttl set my-release 14d --create-service-account
```

### Removing a TTL

If you decide to keep a release, remove the TTL. This deletes the CronJob and cleans up RBAC resources:

```bash
helm ttl unset my-release
```

### Cross-namespace setup

When the CronJob should run in a different namespace than the release (e.g., a shared `ops` namespace):

```bash
helm ttl set my-release 7d --create-service-account \
  -n staging --cronjob-namespace ops
```

To also delete the release namespace when the TTL fires:

```bash
helm ttl set my-release 30d --create-service-account \
  -n staging --cronjob-namespace ops \
  --delete-namespace
```

### Cleaning up after TTL fires

After a CronJob fires, the RBAC resources it used remain as inert orphans. Clean them up with:

```bash
# Preview what would be deleted
helm ttl cleanup-rbac --dry-run

# Delete orphaned RBAC resources
helm ttl cleanup-rbac
```

## Limitations

- **Maximum TTL:** ~11 months (cron has no year field)
- **RBAC cleanup:** CronJobs do not clean up their own RBAC resources after firing
- **`--delete-namespace`** is only allowed when the CronJob namespace differs from the release namespace
- **Resource name length:** Combined `<release>-<namespace>-ttl` must be <= 52 characters

## License

MIT
